Because we are doing all of this as API
that anybody can hit from anywhere.
We want to make sure that these are valid
requests coming from Slack, right?
That's an important thing for
us to have done, so
before we go any further,
let's actually add that in.
And we're gonna do that by
opening up our util again,
and grab this Slack util,
oops, I'll close this one.
And below the Slack API,
I want to add a few pieces.
So I'm going to get a couple of things, a
couple of exports that I need or imports.
So I'm gonna need the handler type, or
the handler event type specifically.
From netlify functions, and that's so
that we get again some autocomplete.
And then we're going to be hashing this so
we're gonna use the create
HMAC from crypto.
And that's a built-in node module,
and then I can collapse this one down.
We're going to export a new
function called verifySlackRequest,
and that's gonna take the request
which will be a handler event.
So, the first thing we wanna do is get
the pieces out that we're gonna need, so
we need our
process.env.SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET.
And then we need to make sure
that it doesn't yell at us for
that potentially being null.
We know that it's set
because we set it ourselves,
then we're going to check the signature,
and that's gonna come out of the headers.
So we get the x-slack-signature is
the header that they will send with that,
the signature that we're gonna compare.
So we're gonna write this and then we'll
kinda talk through what it does cuz this
crypto stuff can get a little head bendy.
So stick with me and we will step
through it once the code is written.
So next we're gonna get a timestamp,
the timestamp that we want
is the request headers.
And that is gonna be
the x-slack-request-timestamp,
that's when the request was made.
Because there's something
called a replay attack,
where someone can send
the same request later.
Looks like I forgot an s on this one,
so we'll fix that.
Then, I'm gonna do now because
we need the current time,
so we're gonna run math floor of date.now.
And then we're gonna divide by
1,000 because the precision
of a slack timestamp is lower
than the precision of date.now.
So it's a thousand microseconds,
milliseconds, I'm not sure which.
But by dividing by a thousand
we get to the same number, and
by running Math.floor,
it hits the same number there.
So then, just to make sure
that nothing funky is up,
we're gonna run a Math.abs and
do a now- timestamp.
And if that is greater than 300,
meaning the timestamp is more than five
minutes off what our server thinks now is,
we're just gonna return false.
We're gonna assume something's funky,
this is an invalid request, so
we'll just throw it.
Next, we need to generate
a hash of our message.
So we're gonna create Hmac and
we're gonna use
the sha256 algorithm and
pass in the secret.
So this is the signing secret that
we'll use to generate the hash.
We wanna update the value with v0,
this is a format
that slack defines
the timestamp of the message.
And then we're gonna use the request
body unencoded just as it was sent.
And finally we're going to digest
that to get out the hex value.
So we want a hex value, which is a hash of
this string using our signing secret and
the sha256 algorithm.
And finally, we're going to
check whether or not these zero.
And the hash.
Is the same as our signature.
Okay, so a lot happens in here,
so let's talk through how this works and
why it's important.
So, when you're dealing with a request,
you wanna make sure that
that request is authentic.
And there are a lot of ways
that you can do this, but
this idea of sending a signature
is one of the ways that is.
It's still kinda hard to understand,
but is at least, I don't know,
it makes sense to me and
I'm not a cryptographer.
So what we're doing is we're saying,
Slack has a secret password that it
shares with us, the signing secret.
This is the key that we will
use to generate these hashes,
that key is not sent with the messages.
But what is done is slack uses that
site signing secret to create a hash
of the request body and the timestamp
that it uses to say if your request
matches what we generated at the time
that we sent this, then it's valid.
So we're able to say we have
the secret nobody else does.
And Slack has a secret.
so when we check that something that's
hashed using our signing secret matches
the same input value, so the v0,
the timestamp and the request body.
If those two things come out the same,
that means that whoever sent it has
the signing secret, and
we can assume that it's valid.
Now, that will be the sort
of thing that like,
if you're ever worried that somebody
has it, like after I do this workshop,
because I've showed
everybody my signing secret.
I am going to immediately go unroll that,
which I'll then have to update
in the environment variable.
Or anybody could send anything
they want to my Slack instance.
So now, what this does is it allows us
to be sure that the messages coming in
are from Slack.
Which gives us much,
much more confidence that the things that
follow this verification will just work.
So in here we can validate
the Slack request by just checking,
we'll load the value into valid, and
verifySlackRequest and pass in the event.
And then if it's not valid,
we will console.error and
say invalid request.
And then we will also
return a status code of
400 and say body of invalid request.
And so
basically what we're saying is like, hey,
whatever you did you're
not allowed to do here.
If we get past this point then it is
valid and we can continue as usual.
So to test this it's not gonna look
any different because it's actually
gonna work.
Right?
So we get our another dad joke, but
if we were to fake this and
say that our request failed.
Then it would fail, and in the console
here, we would see invalid request.
So if somebody starts sending us stuff,
then we would be able to say, no,
that's not okay whatever
it is you're doing.